# Ingress

Ingress resources enables HTTP traffic from the outside of your kubernetes
cluster to reach the pods inside your cluster.

## An Ingress resource per Capsule

When enabling an ingress interface on a capsule, the rig-operator will under
the hood create an `Ingress` resource for the capsule. Exactly what happens
when an ingress resource is created depends on what controller has the
responsiblity of handling the ingress resources.

### An IP per Ingress is annoying

Some ingress controllers create a cloud load balancer for each Ingress
resource, in turn this means that each ingress resource will get a dedicated
IP. This leaves you to setup DNS to point to the cloud loadbalancer IP.

In order to avoid this we recommend that you either use a dedicated ingress
controller (eg. [ingress-nginx](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx)),
or automate configuration of DNS based on ingress resources using
[external-dns](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/external-dns).

If you use a dedicated controller, then you can create a wildcard DNS record
which points *.mycluster.mydomain.com to the loadbalancer. Then you can easily
enable Ingress for resources using the capsule name or whatever you want eg.
mycapsule.mycluster.mydomain.com.

### Specifying ingress class

If you want rig to use a specific ingress controller, this can be achieved by
setting the ingress class that rig should use for the `Ingress` resources it
creates.

When install using [the helm
chart](https://github.com/rigdev/rig/tree/main/deploy/charts/rig-operator), you
can pass the value `config.ingress.className` to specify the ingress class rig
should use.

## TLS is required

We want to encourage proper secure HTTP, which is why we have decided that we
only support ingress with a TLS certificate. At the time of writing we support
this with the help of the amazing [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/). The
rig operator, can be configured with a reference to a cert-manager
`ClusterIssuer` which in turn will be used to issue certificates for the
Ingress resources. We don't have an opinion about how you configure the
`ClusterIssuer`, but it should be able to issue certificates for the `Ingress`
resources which will be created.

When installing the `rig-operator` through [the helm
chart](https://github.com/rigdev/rig/tree/main/deploy/charts/rig-operator) you
can set `config.certManager.clusterIssuer` to specify what `ClusterIssuer` rig
should use for creating certificates.
